how big was that fish you caught this
big this big this big without
photographic evidence there's nothing
that proves you caught a whopper and
that's been true since the dawn of
fishing in fact hundreds of years ago
long before photography could capture
motive Japanese fishermen invented their
own way to record trophy catches they
called it geo Taku the otaku is the
ancient art of printing fish that
originated in Japan as a way to record
trophy catches prior to the modern day
camera geo means fish and Taku means
impression there are several different
stories about how Ghia Taku came about
but it basically started with fishermen
needing a way to record the species and
size of the fish they caught over 100
years ago fisherman took paper ink and
brushes out to sea with them they told
stories of great adventures of feed
since the Japanese revered certain fish
the fishermen would take a rubbing from
these fish and release them to make the
rubbing they would paint the fish with
non-toxic Sumi ink and print them on
rice paper this way they could be
released or cleaned and sold at market
the first prints like this were for
records only with no extra details it
wasn't until the mid 1800s that they
began painting I details and other
embellishments on to the prints one
famous nobleman Lord Sakai was an avid
fisherman
and when he made a large catch he wanted
to preserve the memory of the large red
sea bream to do so he commissioned a
fisherman to print his catch after this
many fishermen would bring their gear
Taku prints to Lord Sakai and if he
liked their work he would hire them to
print for him many prints hung in the
palace during the Edo period
after this period yaku was not as
popular and began to fade away today
Kyoto ku has become a popular art form
enjoyed by many and the prints are said
to bring good luck to the fishermen but
the art form is quite different than it
used to be most artists today learn on
their own by trial and error before the
artist begins to print the fish needs to
be prepared for printing first the
artist places the fish on a hollowed out
surface then the artist spreads the fins
out and pins them down on the board to
dry they then clean the fish with water
when it comes time to print there are
two different methods the indirect
method begins with pasting moist fabric
or paper onto the fish using rice paste
then the artist uses a tampo or a cotton
ball covered in silk to put ink on the
fabric or paper to produce the print
this method requires more skill and
great care needs to be taken when
pulling the paper off the fish so the
paper doesn't tear in the direct method
the artist paints directly on the fish
and then gently presses the moist fabric
or paper into the fish with both of
these methods no two prints are exactly
alike but both reveal dramatic images of
the fish for the final touch the artist
uses a chop or stamp and signs their
work and can hold it up to say the fish
was exactly this big